everybody welcome back to normal and
please binding lines again truth Plus on
the last episode we did xxx
please somebody rescue me spin that
record baby did it do do I forgot this
is a the worst challenge in the freakin
video game good lord LBZ eh 9 9 b i also
mashed up like 20 songs there so how
does speed work you get 16 minutes to
beat the run all the way through to
mom's heart this took us a million years
last time everything's that doubled
speed or you know roughly doubled speed
I should say except for the timer the
timer moves that you know one second
equals one second but it's a it's a
freaking nightmare this challenge was
probably doubtlessly the hardest one I
had in after birth it took me like I
think I had to do one video where I just
did this challenge but I will say a very
good start for us here is in the books
with infestation - the problem is it's
going to be very tough for us because
everything is moving twice as fast it's
going to be very tough for us to not
take damage and the secure the deal with
the devil on the next floor and thus
have the best chance possible to
complete this but I'm going to give it a
try because you know why wouldn't we
write the complete this challenge early
would be very nice for me and kind of a
little bit of redemption after not
necessarily crushing the first two or
the 1st suite of challenges that we had
available to us like particularly
failing head trauma was a little silly
but I digress
now I probably should use the bomb to
finish you off but I really want to use
a bomb to get a tinted rock and spirit
art on the next floor so if you could
just die that would be excellent
you are now dead thank you very much I
don't think we took too long there
should we have taken shorter or less
time I would love to don't get me wrong
but at the same time I'm not sure what
else that could have really done about
it
dude the music sounds super cool sped up
like this it's like a brand new track
and fudge wrap you can have it back some
enemies are I'm not going to say they're
going to be on dodge able because again
our speed is going to be higher as a
result of the challenge to begin with
but they're going to be tough to dodge
especially enemies that have like almost
no tell to their animations these guys
should be relatively easy but I also
think the speed might affect the physics
for some enemies like that guy was
firing shots way further than I would
normally expect that's not a spirit of
hard but it's not bad and I think we do
want big chubby up in NYC I still kind
of want to go to the shop because again
like mapping is super important but ok
this boy is - oh I guess the creep just
doesn't dissipate in the speed challenge
thereby making it like literally
impossible to succeed so sweet thank you
for that I really appreciate that one
anyway we're down to the next floor we
at least got two tiers upgrade yo if
you're going to make everything go twice
as fast the creeps should dissipate
twice as fast I actually don't know if
there's a way that we could have done
that without getting hit except possibly
I suppose it might have been conceivable
to like just drop a bomb and get his
progress and then kill him but I don't
know it was I'm sceptical to that what
it works so you can see on the speed
challenge dude when it rains it pours
like we actually have gotten pretty
lucky I think we have like maybe an
eight or a nine out of ten start here
might actually take a ten to win this
challenge I haven't even done the
arithmetic yet of what the timing needs
to be to make a win on the Speed
Challenge plausible these are nightmare
enemies by the way you have eight floors
in 16 minutes you have two minutes per
floor
not only do we have to be fast though we
also have to survive which strikes me as
probably being a little bit more of a
challenge right now oh my god
I thought we were cool man so there goes
our deal with the devil chants in all
likely they're gonna place a bomb oh no
I'm not because I don't have a bomb this
is where I'd place a bomb if I had one
it really front-loaded the BS challenges
an afterbirth huh
Oh No why not dude oh this is also a
pretty bad draw far as bosses I don't
want to fight go oh my lord dude they do
not pull any punches yep okay okay okay
restart restart my god that was a just a
nasty spawn
I blame blighted ovum because who knows
we might have gotten like brimstone in
that item room or in that in that Devil
Room I should say okay I mean there's
something to say about Holy Light
imagine buying The Binding of Isaac
after birth you know I haven't played
this game in a while maybe I'll start
with the challenges okay that one took
90 minutes and then this one is
borderline oh I placed the bomb there
borderline impossible okay I'm letting
them get inside of my head here just
slow your roll you can work your way
through this holy light is great all you
got to do is actually land these shots
I'm not even going to say anything about
the fact that I think it's a little rich
that we find ourselves fighting like the
hardest bosses in the game on this
challenge that that's just life dude it
is what it is but hey would it kill you
to give me like a single Larry jr. or
something like that I mean I recognize
you're not trying to give me you know
any charity here yet at the same time
[Music]
all of the Holy Light shots are missing
Wow okay I think we got very lucky there
like the shots of the fired didn't hit
because the shot height was too high or
something ridiculous I'll take it well
we're going to leave this floor in
roughly two minutes but this isn't the
one that I'm worried about this is the
shortest one so we did like greatly
increase our speed to make this happen I
think that was very good though
Lasky's fine the HP will keep us alive a
little bit like the eternal heart will
keep us alive a little bit longer than
we otherwise would be set up here by the
way if you're waiting for like the point
of which we start having like funny
commentary on this episode I wouldn't
necessarily get your hopes up not sure I
have it in me to do some you know go on
a bit here well I got to maintain
supreme focus but in a way it's okay
because it is kind of no tinted rock it
is kind of unique in the Isaac Pantheon
or the Isaac collection as far as
challenge runs go this one is I mean a
singularly on its own in terms of what
it is and then be also probably the most
difficult in the whole game even if a
lot of that difficulty from my
perspective is that it's just not
designed very well not to AH
not to be completely you know Drude to
it but okay a black marketeer could
change a lot
we need mapping this is not mapping of
any variety I think we got a swing to
the fences so take buddy in a box and
that's sadly like the only great one
there and even that is not great but I
needed something that improved us
offensively and that's as good as it got
in there unfortunately
maybe like pay-to-play doesn't matter I
think in fact it's probably just bad
considering the HP requirements for this
run potentially uh what else was there
in there like but bottle of pills maybe
you can get lucky with some bottle of
pills but so I let's try it let's try it
huge growth
it could be worthwhile just pop this
right here and get a huge damage upgrade
kill pin guaranteed deal with the devil
and then please God a good deal good
enough not good enough to make me feel
like we got a great chance but good
enough to feel like we in this so I'm
going to push forward here and go to the
item room because I feel like you kind
of it might seem like it's going to slow
us down but I think you've got to make
these low percentage plays they have a
good chance to win speed or maybe you
don't I mean I am talking out of my butt
to some extent I will sacrifice the
spirit art to get God's flesh
mostly because it showed up and I
certainly should not have gone for that
but let's have this payout with crickets
head and solve all of our problems
please world card versus hermit we take
world for certain okay so I mean we're
worse off than we were on the last run
but we're alive which is better than the
last run it takes a lot to get me to do
that room it's also going to take a lot
to drag me away from you there's nothing
that a hundred men or more could ever do
okay so guffy chances exist I thought it
was a weird little curled-up weird
literal curled up snake that we had as
our buddy in a box but I think it's
actually some kind of all I was so kind
of weird like amoeba or something dude I
will take little monstro assuming he
charges twice as fast I'm a relatively
happy camper because he can do quite a
lot of damage we do have more bombs we
should go to the curse room right away
because in doing so we can maybe get
like Guppies head would be 10 out of 10
obviously but like for real in this
situation tenets and
we ruined our chance out of impatience
to get skeleton key it's a little bit of
a bummer but this isn't as your standard
vanilla run you know if this was a
vanilla run I'd be like dang I just
ruined my chance to get an item we
almost never see but because of speed
I'm like hey at least you didn't spend
more than two seconds thinking about it
we needed that and I'm going to try
something a little bold here give us
just enough money and a luck upgrade to
get this and then this is the two of
spades which at least allows us to go to
remaining item rooms I'm very very
tempted don't get me wrong to check on
that to check on that golden chest but
I'm going to abstain for the time being
without knowing how valuable like the
keys that we have are I don't feel
comfortable just throw-in some away so
remarkably we're still on pace as long
as we can beat this boss within the next
let's give ourselves little tolerance we
can beat them dang it if you can beat
the boss within the next 40 seconds or
so consider it relatively on pace but
we're slowing down and we're certainly
not going to get a deal with the devil
here or shouldn't expect to at least we
might have a chance no but well scent is
good and again pretty much on schedule
but the more teleportation cards the
merrier
as long as they take us where we want to
go oh okay I mean I don't know if I've
ever seen this payout with like a ten
out of ten pill just being very cautious
because I don't want to ruin our devil
chance here unfortunately dude thank you
but if these are even okay it might be a
huge help power pill versus two of
spades I mean I think we should take
power pill into our rooms with us
I am an idiot I am an idiot I'm just
going to cause so much backtracking if
we're going to go back for a power pill
like literally every time so I don't
want to go back literally every time but
I do want to go back like on occasion
here and apparently I'm an idiot for
doing so because on the catacombs you
only fight enemies that are like across
a bridge from you and as a result
there's no reason to be invincible and
and turn yourself into like pac-man
I think we're holding it together though
this would be a really big floor to get
a nice hole that was close to get a nice
like deal with the devil improvement
this is fine he did not get hit by that
am i living in fantasy island
well I mean at this point I don't know
should we make it an effort to get more
power pills going back for to a spades
or none of the above right like kind of
getting like really strapped for time
we're at the point where we're behind
schedule the idea being that we can get
ahead of schedule but only if things get
strong and to luck with gimpy is is a
start a very good chance of improving
our survival I would suggest not fully
convinced of its ability to make us go
faster but you know what hey thanks to
the spirit art I think we need to save
our money in the hopes of getting a
magic mushroom in the hopes of getting a
mapping item on future floors I think we
just save our money for now play the
percentages here we're going to be
almost two minutes behind schedule which
I mean in layman's terms means we're
screwed
unless a deal with the devil that we
didn't even expect to have a chance to
earn please lord stop moving and yet
also give me the holy light shot that I
desire in order to have a chance of
success how we didn't get hit there is
basically like I can only assume divine
intervention thank you
troll engine you've done me a solid for
once
thank you placenta for the res in there
don't think I didn't see that
and we got a guppy item it's it's it
what is it man I don't know where I've
been asking myself that same question
ever since the song came out could you
stop blocking the only shots I have that
deal a decent amount of damage please
one thing's for certain I'm very glad I
took the time to do one normal run in
the middle of these challenges before
starting the afterbirth ones because the
afterbirth ones are a problem I think we
have to go my dream here we got a black
heart from poop Wow
my oh my dream here is we get a deal
with the devil and then we come back go
to the curse room completely guppy
trifecta and then give ourselves a very
very small chance to actually win the
Speed Challenge I think we're playing
from behind right now I think we don't
have a great seed for beating the the
speed challenge so I'm not going to feel
too bad if all of our you know dreams
come to fruition and we still lose
because I don't think that this is a
very winnable speed seed which is a
strange sentence to say but certainly
we're going to give it a try regardless
we did get a deal with the devil no
Krampus please it's Krampus all right if
he ever spins we basically just take
damage I don't I don't care if we get
hit more we need something even Krampus
was head is fine there and then we need
to go to the curse room even though it's
going to cost us our black heart there's
a small chance there's to guppy items in
there we got it we got to roll with it
that does not appear to be to guppy
items well I'm going to just peep one
more room my idea was maybe just maybe
it'll be the the shop here but we're
we're in sight we're going down to the
depths - we have a minute less than we
would like to have which i think is very
bad
especially because the floor is like
only get longer right or at the very
little s potentially incorrect they're
certainly not getting any smaller I
don't know if the womb is actually any
larger than the desk but it's kind of
secondary to the whole thing I did not
get hit there we have had some
miraculous saves I know we want to steal
with the devil but we have to go to the
cursed room regardless and we've already
taken damage I think so sadly sort of
worth it we're rewarded for our
ineptitude there still to this day that
room can slop my knob as far as I'm
concerned just doesn't make any darn
sense there is a full run reroll I don't
think backtracking for the full run
rerolls is very likely to come to
fruition here we sort of like you might
say you got to try something you got to
try a Hail Mary I think there is an
outside chance if we get like mad lucky
and get like an emperor card we can
maybe swing this but it's going to it
would be very close for certain so but
at this point we have to swing for the
fences because the fences are all we got
not to put too fine a point on it say
I'm the only bee in your bonnet not to
put too fine a point on it I think we
will basically lose unless we get a deal
with the devil here or like an early
Emperor card on the next floor somehow
we did not get a deal with the devil I
mean you got a look I don't know what
out if I got like a teleport item in
there that could have been useful but
yeah we're just we're too tight on time
here I don't think is anything you can
really a mustard and that's kind of like
the deal breaker right there it's a dead
ends
well we're still going to play it out
and give it a shot but I've kind of lost
hope a little bit we really did make a
solid attempt at it here with you know
five point six damage and base rate of
fire I don't think anyone could accuse
us of just capitulating to the game yet
at the same time I think we you know
we've exhausted our our best chances
here probably always good to you know
focus on the positives of what you did
and then also simultaneously look for
improvement you know what we'll say a
big get for us a buddy in a box I
actually think that item is not really
that good but good on me to recognize
that in that situation it was maybe one
of the one of the few chances we had to
make something big happen or at least
make something make the run happened
within the realm of plausibility so I
got it I got to give myself a little pat
on the back for that at least because
it's a it's an unusual way to you know
in enact some form of momentum on a run
but this is this is not a nice room
that was pretty nasty that's what we
need basically but it would be better if
it were the Emperor and we are in a
position where beggars can be choosers
right now because otherwise we're about
to get chosen by the god of time itself
to be killed so I'm happy with the world
card but without you know unlimited
bombs I still don't see this happening
even if we know which way we're supposed
to go okay so we're gonna have an 18
percent chance on a deal with the devil
here a deal with the devil that gives us
guppy would be amazing at this point
even if we got an emperor card I don't
know dude an emperor card plus guppy
would probably do it didn't get the
emperor card got a spear at art how do
you do this I mean you basically we're
gonna have like ten seconds to beat
mom's heart at best so rooms that are
not that tough just get killed rooms
that are large get blown up
rooms that are even mildly annoying get
blown up now that's fine actually fine
you got to go you got to go what's the
other way forward for us get like all of
the Holy Light shots immediately I mean
I can't I can't bomb through this room
so hands are kind of tied here got 22
seconds just focus dude you have a
spirit art you have gimpy your placenta
there's like an off chance you could
live you really like your only hope is
to just put out as much damage as
possible in the next five seconds is not
going to happen
we're dead okay well we're going to give
this one more try here because I'm like
a little upset that rush was extremely
annoying Bumbo huh not necessarily bad
the bummer as well is that that run is
probably still like markedly above
average it does burn a little bit
knowing that like we were really only
thirty seconds away from making a win
happen there we should let bumbo take
the money I guess although we kind of
need the mapping
so if we had ever done anything that
optimize that run by like 30 seconds we
would have probably come out with a
victory but we would have still had to
kill mom I also like I take a little bit
of issue I'm not saying oh I'm such an
Isaac god no one should ever be a
challenge for me why so many rooms where
the enemies you know our knowing attack
by the way why am I not using on soos
because I want to use on soos for a
larger floor because even if it only
makes a mild difference in terms of time
save that mile difference could be
extremely important by the end of the
run so I hate this this little horn is
going to take a million years to kill
stop shooting those and just blow
yourself up with a bomb please or that's
fine if you just want to walk into the
fire I will accept this
I just you don't create bombs huh I
don't want to be on schedule I want to
be ahead of schedule
a speed upgrade is actually not
altogether that good in my opinion
because we're already us walking quickly
is far from the biggest problem here I
guess it's what I'm trying to suggest
being able to stand further away from
enemies is a perhaps and adverse the
mild bonus we have to save our bombs for
now I don't know the more time goes on
here the less disappointed I feel in
that last run actually feel like we kind
of did all right by us by my own
standards with one damage upgrade over
the course of that whole run to hold it
together for that long or in some deals
with the devil give ourselves a chance
things go slightly differently on that
one we might come away with the win this
is a real problem yet there goes our
deal with the devil chanson and probably
dust Lee I'm just going to hold our and
restart because I really don't think
that one's going to work this is a good
start I'm a little bit perturbed that
attack fly rotates at normal speed
because we needed we would like it to be
faster need is a strong word oh dude I'm
a fan of the speed at which we got
through this floor attack fly might be
our saving grace here and this might not
seem like that big of a deal and in many
ways it's actually not to just get a tax
lie
however us finishing the first floor in
35 seconds is a huge deal it took us two
minutes on the last floor and we were
arguably like a little bit better
equipped
attack flight not rotating quickly is
actually very irritating though because
the enemies are so much faster I'm just
I recognize this is an issue is probably
never going to be fixed it's a little
bit of a niche concern but it's annoying
nonetheless is that oh by the way the
creep doesn't last
are they sorry the creep lasts twice as
long as well so that'll screw you
and then a tax fly doesn't rotate as
fast it doesn't screw you put to get a
mild disadvantage it's like the
challenge is challenging enough to find
a seam and then have that seam
invalidated by it being an edge case so
it's not accounted for is a little
annoying
we need bombs in spite of the fact that
we need to go fast I do think it's
probably smart to look for a bomb but
you know what we do have a chance of
getting a deal with the devil here this
is not a great boss to be fighting wait
a minute we have bombs we could have
just don't be an idiot you can't get too
close but don't be an idiot here oh I
hate you so much
okay you know what deal with the devil
gone but at least we preserved some
bombs and we're still going fast here
but I'm I'm a little cheese please don't
give me something that would have given
me an easy fight here yeah okay that
really doesn't change much but that
one's my own mistake and that's what
burns so much but you know what we not
even messing with you with an orbital
ochre sublime Oh No
with an orbital we really need defensive
items because basically I can kill
anything
I just need help because we're going to
take some damage in the process I mean
this is it's already usually a dumb idea
to use your orbital to deal all damage
it's a little different when you got
attack fly working with you because it's
it's further out then it keep a meter of
all advantages but still a dicey
decision smart fly revenge fly okay
we're building something I believe there
is a chance here I wish that the revenge
fly was a little bit better before you
get hit
after you get hit it's a lovely creature
of course I think we're and this is me
making a deliberate decision that you
may disagree with here but I'm going to
probably just accept that our deals with
the devil are going to be unlikely we're
going to go extremely aggro and just
hope that we get like another gimpy in
our item room or something like not on
this floor but on this run because I
think that you got to access like a
different portion of your brain to
complete the speed challenge and that
that portion of the brain right now is
there's a heart somewhere here is how do
we save time forever basically I'm a
little cheese still at a tack fly I
think a tack fly is kind of muted by the
fact that it's not rotating here but you
know it's not rotating quickly but you
know what here's our chance
we got a one-third chance of a deal with
the devil hundreds of times we've beaten
those odds
but we have to not get hit not least of
which because getting hit will probably
kill us yeah there we go okay well
that's gonna do it for this episode
god speed challenge if you enjoy the
episode click the like button outside a
great deal of course subscribe you wanna
see more on the future for now thanks
watching and I will see you next time